# Default-of-Credit-Card-Clients
This project presents and discusses data-driven predictive models for predicting the defaulters among the credit card users. Data used include details like limit balance, age, sex, amount of bill statement, repayment status and amount of previous payment. The paper discusses which variables are the strongest predictors of default, and to make predictions on which customers are likely to default. Four machine learning models were trained with repeated cross validation and evaluated in a testing set: (a) logistic regression,(b)KNN, (c) decision tree, (d) Naïve Bayes ,(e)Random Forest and Ensembling methods like Boosting and  Bagging. The base model gave 81% R-square value with all the variables without any treatment. 
Classification of default of credit card clients from UCI dataset using machine learning techniques.
The goal is to build an automated model for both identifying the key factors, and predicting a credit card default based on the information about the client and historical transactions. The general concepts of the supervised machine learning paradigm are later reported, together with a detailed explanation of all techniques and algorithms used to build the models. In particular, Logistic Regression, Random Forest and Support Vector Machines algorithms have been applied.
Classification of default of credit card clients from UCI dataset using machine learning techniques.
#Introduction
The aim of this study is to exploit some supervised machine learning algorithms to identify the key drivers that determine the likelihood of credit card default, underlining the mathematical aspects behind the methods used. Credit card default happens when you have become severely delinquent on your credit card payments. In order to increase market share, card-issuing banks in Taiwan over-issued cash and credit cards to unqualified applicants. At the same time, most cardholders, irrespective of their repayment ability, the overused credit card for consumption and accumulated heavy credit and debts

The goal is to build an automated model for both identifying the key factors, and predicting a credit card default based on the information about the client and historical transactions. The general concepts of the supervised machine learning paradigm are later reported, together with a detailed explanation of all techniques and algorithms used to build the models. In particular, Logistic Regression, Random Forest and Support Vector Machines algorithms have been applied.

#Environment
The analysis has been fully conducted with Python language, exploiting several machine learning and statistical frameworks available such as scikit-learn, numpy, pandas, imblearn together with other data visualization libraries (matplotlib and seaborn).
#Conclusion
In this study different supervised learning algorithms have been inspected and presented with their mathematical details, and finally used on the UCI dataset to build a classification model that is able to predict if a credit card clients will default in the next month. Data preprocessing makes algorithms perform slightly better than when trained with original data: in particular, PCA results are approximately the same, but the computational cost has been lowered. Oversampling and undersampling techniques has been combined with PCA to assess the dataset imbalance problem. Oversampling as mentioned performed slightly better w.r.t. the undersampling, this is likely because the model is trained on a large amount of data. However, all the models implemented achieved comparable results in terms of accuracy.
